[bird squawks]
[Sideswipe] Scrap our orders.
We should be going after him!
He seemed sure it'll only open the door
for whoever's got the Matrix.
And we leave with Prime
and the Allspark or we don't leave.
So, what's the big obsession
with this Allspark device?
It's not a device.
It's our life force.
A power greater than us all.
We don't exist without it.
Uh… We do.
-There ain't no Allspark in the fu--
-That's enough!
It's fine.
I get that you want to shield us
from knowledge of the future,
but all we care about right now
is making sure we have one.
We're only trying to help.
I'm only asking if an old relic
is really worth our lives.
Was chasing down the Golden Disk
worth the lives of 200 of your comrades--
-Hey!
-Hey! Slow it down there.
It was because they knew
that in Megatron's hands,
the destructive power of the Disk
was too great.
The Allspark is even more powerful.
Look around.
What do you think created all of this?
This is an illusion!
There ain't nothing
supernatural going on here.
[wind gusting]
Uh, that's just the wind.
Uh, right, Primal?
Where's the gorilla?
[Primal grunts]
[grunts]
[gasps softly]
[doors open]
[Prime] Elita.
[theme music plays]
[music fades out]
[Starscream] So, that's it, then.
Prime has his Matrix,
and by now, the Allspark.
Hmm. Nothing left but to crawl back
to camp and beg for Megatron's mercy.
[Blackarachnia scoffs] Mercy? For what?
[Starscream] Lying, deserting my post,
any number of attempted coups.
-Name it.
-[glitching murmur]
[Starscream] But if I turn myself in,
he may still find me of some use.
[Blackarachnia]
There's always the third option.
-[Starscream] Third option?
-[Blackarachnia transforms]
I know something of history,
something of you, Starscream.
You always waited for someone else
to take Megatron off the board.
So, when they were unsuccessful,
you were, too.
Huh. Your point is?
That no one is ever going
to hand you your crown.
If you want it,
you're going to have to take it.
[Starscream] Hmm…
The hard way.
Oh, no, my darling. [chuckles]
For a ghost, this is the easy way.
[Elita, voice echoes]
That is close enough.
I have traveled far.
[grunts] Please!
Please.
-You are not Elita-1.
-[glitching murmur]
You are the Allspark.
I have come
to deliver you safely to Cybertron.
You must grant me entrance
to the temple before Megatron.
Only he who bears the Matrix
will be seen--
I am the bearer of the Matrix!
[Prime groans]
-The Allspark must…
-[intermittent static]
…must remain protected.
Protected? From whom?
-[intermittent static]
-From… my…
nemesis.
[Ultra Magnus grunts]
[Prime grunting]
[growls]
[ethereal whistling]
[Primal] Dinobot.
[footsteps approaching]
Really?
These illusions are clever,
but not that clever.
Half the bots here think you're a God,
but you don't fool me.
Whatever you are, you're powerful,
and maybe you do belong on Cybertron.
So, if you want to get home,
maybe stop putting obstacles in our way
and let us do our job.
I don't know
why I'm talking to an illusion.
[voice echoing] I am no illusion.
[in low growl] So…
the Allspark has come to summon me.
The Disk was right again.
[Ultra Magnus grunts]
Only he who bears the Matrix will…
will be seen.
[Megatron yells]
[grunts]
How do you do that?
[Predacon Megatron] Lord Megatron!
-I have--
-[Megatron] Save your warning, fool!
The Disk has already told me…
-[footsteps approaching]
-…exactly what happens next.
-[grunts]
-[weapon fires]
[Starscream groans]
[groans]
"Only he who bears the Matrix
will be seen."
-[Prime transforms]
-[weapon fires]
[Prime grunts]
-[tires screech]
-[Prime] I am not your enemy!
You are my nemesis!
[Prime grunts]
[Ultra Magnus growls]
I am Optimus Prime,
bearer of the Matrix,
protector of the Allspark.
Optimus?
Not nemesis!
I must return to Cybertron
before…
[Prime] Before what?
[Ultra Magnus] It is too late.
So many lost,
here and everywhere,
across the vast, empty night.
Lost?
Do you mean lost sparks?
Those that have yet to return to you?
[Ultra Magnus] I need them.
No. They need you.
Unless… hmm…
our existence is…
symbiotic.
Hmm. That is it.
You, the Allspark,
need us as much as we need you.
You are dying… because of me.
Please, let me help.
Optimus.
[Prime grunts]
[Primal pants]
Ghosts don't exist.
You're just Allspark camouflage.
You're tech.
Where are you going?
[high-pitched hum]
-[voice echoes] You don't hear it?
-Hear what?
The Allspark.
You're the Allspark!
Not yet.
So, what?
You're Dinobot's spirit,
ripped from his body on its way--
To join the others.
What others?
I told you.
The Allspark,
and your fallen Maximals.
Would you please just stop?
But you would have made
a terrible Maximal.
[Blackarachnia] You're talking mutiny.
[high-pitched hum continues]
Are you all right?
That was…
For a moment, I was Dinobot.
I was you.
That was no illusion.
It really is you, isn't it?
[high-pitched hum continues]
There isn't time, Primal.
The Allspark.
It's true,
everything the Autobots
and Decepticon have said.
Fight for it,
before it's too late.
How?
You were cloaked!
[Starscream growls]
He knew exactly where I would be.
[sighs] He fired, and when I came to,
he was gone,
along with Shockwave's cloaking device.
[liquid trickles]
[Blackarachnia gasps]
Which means that, by now,
he could be anywhere.
-[footsteps]
-[Blackarachnia gasps]
-[panicked gasps]
-[Megatron chuckles]
-Oh, no.
-[Megatron grunts]
-[Blackarachnia grunts]
-[Starscream gasps]
-[yells]
-[Megatron growls]
[Starscream grunts]
[grunts] He's gone.
He's gone insane!
If we had the Golden Disk,
we could be one step ahead of him!
But the Disk can only be accessed
with Megatron's unique Energon signature.
[Prime] How could this happen?
You have not been
off Cybertron long enough
to warrant this level of decline.
Death.
I have seen…
the death of all things.
A Dead Universe.
The Dead Universe?
You somehow passed
through the Dead Universe
before you exited the Spacebridge.
-I have seen…
-[static interference]
The Dead…
Dead Multiverse.
Listen to me.
What is happening to you
has happened to us.
You are overwhelmed
by infinite amounts of data
from across time and space.
[Elita] Life, death,
war, plague,
sorrow and redemption.
Every… when…
Whatever you have seen,
I am not your enemy.
I can help you.
[Elita groans]
Help.
[Prime] Prime to Rhinox.
Optimus Prime?
I need you to send me the code
you fed to Teletraan-1
to wipe its Dead Universe data.
Oh, okay. Sending now.
[Prime sighs]
Please.
Orion… the new age.
[ethereal whistling]
[Prime] "Only he who bears the Matrix."
[footsteps following]
It's over…
Prime.
Hey! How am I supposed
to help Prime if I can't get inside?
I'm talking to you, Allspark!
[Starscream] Stand aside, Maximal.
You're wasting your time.
It isn't going to let you in.
It let Megatron in.
[Primal] Look, we all want
to get inside the temple.
Why don't we just help each other do that
and then we go our separate ways?
Or we can just kill you now.
Well, well, well.
Conspiring with my greatest enemy?
What a shameful disappointment
you've become, Blackarachnia.
Huh! And what a disappointing shame
you've always been.
[growls] The Disk is Megatron's!
A cloaking device, Megatron?
[Megatron] A coward's weapon, I know.
But I will never again walk behind you,
Optimus Prime.
Give me the Matrix!
It will reject you.
[scoffs] It already has.
Not this time!
The Golden Disk has given me
an advantage you can never match.
I know exactly what is about to happen,
starting with you dropping your weapon.
-[Prime] And if I will not?
-[Megatron] I know you will.
My future self left out no detail
of what transpired here.
And the Predacons who worship him
brought this information back to you,
his younger self.
Why?
Because Megatron lost,
here, today,
right now.
This is where he lost the Allspark.
No.
This is where he lost the war.
Something I will never do.
I can win the Allspark,
and use it to reshape Cybertron
in my image.
I thought you wanted to save it!
[Megatron yells]
[roars]
-[Starscream grunts]
-[Predacon Megatron grunts]
[Starscream] Ah!
[Blackarachnia grunts]
[Predacon Megatron grunting]
-[Blackarachnia yells]
-[Primal] Come on. Come on!
-There's gotta be something--
-[Predacon Megatron growls]
[roars]
[Primal grunts]
We have a lot of unfinished business,
Primal.
Over 200 Maximal's worth.
[Predacon Megatron] And how many
Predacons have you slaughtered
since we came here?
One too few!
[Predacon Megatron]
We weren't even at war.
[grunts] You changed all that
when you tried to change the past.
[Predacon Megatron] For a better future!
-[weapon firing]
-[Predacon Megatron grunts]
You sound just like Megatron.
I am Mega--
-[groans]
-Shut… up.
Stay on him
while I find a way into the temple.
If I were a disembodied spark,
this would be a lot easier.
Dinobot.
[gasps]
[ethereal whistling]
[gasps] Prime!
[Megatron growls]
[Prime groans]
Now, the Matrix.
[Primal growls]
[ethereal whistling]
[chuckles softly]
-Better?
-You… still function.
Barely.
We don't have much time.
There is something I need you to do.
[sighs deeply]
You won't like it,
but it's our only chance
to save our world.
What is it?
You have to lose.
The only way to stop the fighting
is to stop fighting.
Lay down your arms
and surrender to Megatron.
You are correct.
I do not like it.
You can't win everything
until you've lost everything, Prime.
I do not understand.
You will.
[Prime] How?
I have faith in you.
-[Primal grunting]
-[Megatron groaning]
Argh!
-No!
-[Primal grunts]
[roars]
Stand down.
The fighting must stop,
so it stops now, with me.
Take the Matrix, Megatron,
then the Allspark.
May it have mercy on you.
Prime, no.
[crowd cheering]
[Decepticon laughs]
[cheering continues]
[boom]
[cheering stops]
-[Decepticons grunting]
-[metal squeaking]
What is this?
[grunts]
N-- No!
[Primal] What have you done?
[high-pitched whistle]
[resounding boom]
[mechanism clanking]
[door whirs]
[Elita] Quickly now.
[ethereal whistling]
[soft boom]
[high-pitched humming]
Let's…
go home.
[faint whizzing]
Sparks…
giving their life force…
so the Allspark may live.
[Primal] Maximals and Predacons together.
Ah…
Go on. Maximize.
[spark whizzes]
[echoing boom]
Till all are one.
[Primal] Till all are one.
[rattling]
[clanks]
[loud whoosh]
[instrumental music plays]
[music crescendos]
[music fades out]
[theme music plays]